# Continuous burned area monitoring using bi-temporal spectral index time series analysis

Extreme wildfires are a major agent of disturbance in present-day forest ecosystems and, have serious impacts on society in terms of human casualties and economic losses. Prioritizing and implementing relief and recovery measures after fires require explicit spatial information on the disaster extent. Information for detecting and monitoring ecosystem disturbance due to wildfires is obtainable using time series analysis of remote sensing data. However, the accuracy of this information depends on many factors, such as the input spectral features and the scene characteristics. In this study, we appraise the use of three spectral indices for continuous burned area monitoring in mainland Greece using the Breaks For Additive Seasonal and Trend (BFAST) Monitor unsupervised algorithm. In addition to the commonly employed Normalized Burn Ratio (NBR) we evaluated the use of differenced Normalized Burn Ratio (dNBR) and Relativized Burn Ratio (RBR) generated from a 16-day Landsat-8 time series. The spatiotemporal Overall Accuracy (OA) is assessed using Copernicus Emergency Mapping Service (EMS) grading products and an independent visual interpretation procedure. The latter approach suggests that the using the dNBR (OA = 87.0 %) and RBR (OA = 86.9 %) indices is more efficient than using the NBR time series (OA = 66.4 %). Copernicus EMS validation data show that the RBR-based approach attains a higher OA (80.5 %) -higher than either dNBR (OA = 75.0 %) or NBR (OA = 72.1 %). Evaluating the temporal agreement with Copernicus EMS products, bi-temporal indices achieved mean time lags of 0.023 (dNBR), 0.019 (RBR) and −0.015 (NBR) years. Overall, RBR usage provides the most reliable input for consistent continuous burned area monitoring.
